# React Components

- File extension
- Class vs function components
- What is JSX ?
- Exploring Components
- Other important points
- Dynamic components
- Reusable Components

## File extensions

- **.js**
  - Stands for Javascript
  - COntains regular javascript code
  - used general logic and components
- **.jsx**
  - Stands for Javasdcript XML
  - Combines javascript with HTML like tags
  - Makes it easier to design UI Components

## Class Vs function component

- **Class Component**
  - **Stateful** - Can manage state.
  - **Lifecycle** - Accessto lifecycle methods
  - **Verbose** - More boilerplate code
  - Not preferred anymore
- **Functional Component**
  - Initially stateless
  - can use Hooks for state and effects
  - Simpler and more concise
  - More popular

## What is JSX ?

- JSX determines how the UI will look whereever the component is used
- **Not HTML** Though it resembles HTML, you are actually writing JSX, which stand for Javascript XML.
- **Conversion** JSX gets coverted to regular javascript
- **BabeliJs.io/repl** is a tool that allows you to see how JSX is transformed into Javascript.

## Exporting Components

- One default export

```
component.js

export default function Button(){
  ...
}
```

- Multiple Names exports

```

export default function Slider(){
  ...
}
export default function Checkbox(){
  ...
}
```

- Named export and one default export

```
export function Avatar(){
  ...
}
export default function FriendList(){
  ...
}
```

- Enables the use of component in other parts of the codebase.
- **Default exort** Allows exporting a single component as the default from a module.
- **Names Export** Allows exporting multiple items from a module.
- **importing** To use an exported component, you need to import it in the dstination file using import syntax.

- Check the main.jsx in the project to check how App.jsx is used.

## Other Important Points

- **Naming** must be capitalized; lowercase for default html tags and elements
- **HTML** unlike valina JS where you can not directly write HTML, in react you can embed HTML like syntax using JSX
- **CSS** in React, CSS can be directly imported into component files, alloweing for modular and component specific styling.

## Dynamic COmponents

- **Dynamic COntext** JSX allowes the creation of dynamic and interactive UI components.
- **Javascript Expression** Using {}, we can embed any JS expression directly within JSX. This includes, variables, function calls ad more.

## Reusable Components

- **Modularity** components are modular, allowing for easy reuse across different parts of an application.
- **Consistency** Reusing components ensures UI consistency and reduces the chance of discrepancies.
- **Efficiency** Reduces development time and effort by avoiding duplication of code.
- **Maintainability** Changes made to a reused component reflect everywhere it's used, simplifying updates and bug fixes.
